I want to show you that very famous
Italian recipe for potato gnocchi potato
gnocchi are little dumplings made with
potatoes flour and eggs and you can do
all kinds of things with them they have
the same kind of versatility as pasta
now you start off I've got this is going
to be gnocchi for two people you can
make larger quantities you start off
with 10 ounces of potatoes that have
been boiled in their skins and then the
skins taken off then you mix them with
an electric hand whisk to beat them to a
paste like this or a mash like this the
next thing you do is you add three and a
half ounces of sifted plain flour and
you begin to work the flour into the
potato but of course it won't all go in
it needs some moisture so what you then
do is you add half an egg so I've got a
beaten egg here and I'm going to add
what looks like half of that and then
it's impossible to judge how much you
need so you start off with half and then
if you need to if it's too soft or too
stiff rather you can just add a little
bit more start off with your fork
working the egg into the rest then
finish off with your hands but before
you do that it's a good idea to add a
little bit of seasoning the potatoes
were salted when they were boiled but
it's quite nice to just add a little bit
more seasoning here for the flour now
just going with your hands as if you are
making pastry dough and just pull the
whole thing together and I can see now
that I am probably going to need just a
little spot more eggs not a lot so I'll
just use a teaspoon just a little spot
like that
and then just work it with your hands to
a smooth dough doesn't mind being
handled this one it's not like pastry
you can handle it as much as you like
right now the next thing you need is a
work surface and you divide the dough
into four pieces so into quarters like
that and then flour the surface and then
just start to roll it as if you were
rolling sausage meat to make a sausage
roll and what you need to do is roll it
out until you get a roll that's
approximately half an inch in diameter
you don't want it too thick and if you
find it easier you can divide it at this
stage and do two rolls I think that's
about it now about half an inch in
diameter and then I just take a little
bit off the end like that and cut it
into 1-inch pieces on the diagonal like
that then the next thing that happens to
them is they're arranged on a plate as
you make all the little naki and when
they're all made you pop them into the
refrigerator and let them chill and they
need to chill quite a while because
before you cook them they need to be
very chilled but also naki have this
sort of characteristic fork patterns on
the top and it's easier to do that when
they're chilled so forget about them now
really until you're ready to cook them
you